The Joe Rogan experience.
First of all, I think it's amazing that no one's talked you into do an MMA.
It's incredible. I've been close.
How close, but mostly the lady outside, my wife,
Lauren really is the one that's talked me out of it. Really? Yeah, bro.
Like when I graduated from college in 2011,
university of Nebraska wrestling was still on the brink of if it was
in its infancy of marketing and branding and really making it a professional
career.
So MMA was the new kid on the block and it was growing and expanding.
And we had a lot of our guys transitioning in HEA judo,
Ben ASIN and Daniel Cormier. And so I really thought about it. I was like, okay,
I'm gonna wrestle the Olympics in London, 2012, win the gold.
And then I'm gonna make the transition to MMA. I'll be 25 years old.
I'll have plenty of time. And then I met Lauren and she's like, listen,
you're doing well in the sport. Stay here. You're comfortable.
It's just a different, it's a different sport MMA in comparison to wrestling,
but it's a good thing.
It,
it is a different sport and it'll also has a lot head trauma and
there's a lot of things to consider.
100%. That's what I think about all the time. I, well, I <laugh> listen.
I think about going to MMA until I see a guy like platinum,
Mike Perry get his whole thing,
split nose crooked. I'm like, eh, I'm good. It's like in wrestling, you lose,
you get taken down, pushed out, you know, you get pin and fighting,
you lose, you get something broken, choked out, tap, you know, it's unconscious.
It's a very, very different sport wrestling. It's much E it's a,
you score as many points as possible doing the least damage as possible.
And MMA, I feel like it's, it's different.
It's a shame that there's not more attention per put
on the professional. Like, like at one point in time,
professional wrestling was actual wrestling. Yeah. Yeah.
It wasn't like WW entertainment.
It was professional wrestling and it was done for PO why can't they do that?
I know they tried to do that a few years back. There was a,
an organization I think was it Kevin Jackson that was doing it? Yeah. Yeah.
He was doing something where he was doing a professional wrestling organization,
but it just didn't catch on for some reason, but yet golf is on TV. For sure.
So baseball and all these things.
That are bags, bro. Corn hole.
I was watching the corn hole championships on ESPN the other day. I'm like, bro,
this is wild. Like corn hole is on ESPN more often than.
Wrestling,
but isn't that just now because there's no crowds in COVID and there's all the
weirdness and there's a lot of that's on,
like if you follow sports center on Instagram,
like half the they do is like people in their backyard, like doing crazy dunks.
And stuff. Mm-hmm <affirmative> I think the,
the invention of the internet has definitely changed the game.
Him for our sport.
We are in an epic time where anyone can be famous.
All you need is an iPhone. Yeah. Cell phone period.
Like if you can film footage and upload it. And it's funny,
it's inventive. It's disruptive.
Like you have an audience and people are gonna follow it.
So people that are going viral now becoming superstars aren't even the most
particularly talented people in society.
They just have a niche and they know how to stay consistent with it.
Well, sometimes it doesn't even make sense. Like something just catches, like,
remember the dude that was on the skateboard, uh, doing Fleetwood, cranberry.
Juice. Yeah. <laugh>.
Like, just for whatever reason, everybody's like, that guy looks like he's.
Having fun. Get this man, a truck, get him more cranberry.
Juice. And now he's on. I look, he's always on podcast. He's all over the place.
He's a man. He bought a house. He bought a car. I mean, it's really incredible.
That's.
The beauty of it. Yeah.
That's the beauty of it is it gives people an opportunity.
There it is right there. Yeah. So it was,
it was professional wrestling league that a established and you know,
when people reference what we do, I call it Olympic wrestling. Honestly,
I don't even call it professional wrestling cuz that is kind of an O to the WWE
and old time WWF. So it's a, it's a unique thing that we had at this time.
And this is Tommy Rolands day. Cormier both extremely competitive, both uh,
great wrestlers, Oklahoma state, Ohio state.
This probably was around oh 4 0 5 ish. Um,
so I was still in high school, real pro wrestling. That's right.
So they had different cities across the country that had their own teams.
It was almost like XFL ES it kind of had that vibe. And you had, so it's.
Ruan Gardner. Yeah. Ruan Gardner.
And the Tim Johnson in the middle. He works for the big 10 network.
And also for ESPN, he does commentary for the, uh,
NCAA championships yearly.
And then the last guy's Nick car who was a NCA champ world.
Medalist and Ruan is another guy that made the transition.
He made the transition to MMA. Did he? Yeah. I didn't know that. Yeah. Yeah.
He fought a bunch of times over in Japan and actually that's crazy.
I think what stopped him was he lost a toe in a frostbite that's right.
Accidents.
He's a former Cornhusker is he?
And we went to the same university and I got a chance to kind of spend some time
with <inaudible>, but he was out when I was kind of transitioning in. Oh.
And so he's an interesting cat and he is one of those guys that's like shrouded
in this mystery, but they so many like
epic stories about who he was, what he's done, how much he's eaten. He's.
Gorilla dude, massive man.
The size of that guy. Massive man. Um, and then obviously him beating Carella,
which is pretty much considered the most legendary victory and wrestling history.
Does that's a weird right.
Because it's like corre and all he did was get Corll and to break his grip.
Yeah. And it was a new rule, right? Yep.
The rules are evolving all the time and wrestling. So it's uh,
one of those rule changes that year in particular, which wasn't,
it didn't translate well to the average fan. Mm.
So like the toughest thing about wrestling is that the rules change so often
that a non-traditional wrestling fan can't really keep up.
You watch a football game, you know, listen, you put the ball into the end zone.
It's six points, extra point, a point field goal, three points, right? Safety,
two, you watch basketball. You know, if you're behind this arc,
it's three points. If you're within it, it's two points and wrestling.
There's so many different subjective rule sets that you're like, okay, well,
if you unlock your hands here or if this guy gets pushed outta bound,
it's a point. But if you shove him outta bound, it's no points.
If he's grounded, it's no points. But if his knees off the mat,
then it's a point. So there's so many different,
like little nuances in the sport that make it difficult to follow.
And even if you're within it,
like sometimes you have to address what the rule set is before you even compete
in a tournament. There are times when we're meeting with, uh,
administration and referees,
before we compete at the Olympics world championships,
just so we can stay current on the rules set for that year because it's,
it's just that much, always evolving, always evolving.
That, is that something that plays in your head while you're actually competing?
Do you, do you have to think like, oh wait a minute. What is,
what's the rule for this.
Place? You know, that's a good question. I think in the heat of the moment,
sometimes I, I imagine you've seen it a lot in MMA, whether it's a guy,
you know, hitting someone in the back of the head or mm-hmm, <affirmative>,
you know, kicking them when they're down on a knee,
like all these little things that when you're in the battle and you're fired up
and you're trying to put this man out,
like you don't even think about the rule set. You just, you know,
it has to be programmed. I think experience just, uh,
multiple times within this position.
There's a certain level of savviness and mental toughness that you have to have
to get there. Catch.
New episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on spot,
watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify, including clips,
easily seamlessly switch between video and audio experience
on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost all for free spot.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.